:toc:

= Frequently Asked Questions =

== I haven't studied for a while, and now the next due times are too big! ==

When you use Anki every day, each time a card is answered correctly, it gets a
bigger interval. Let's assume that 'good' about doubles the interval. Thus you
have a 5 day wait, then a 10 day wait, 20 days, 40 days, and so on.

When people return to their deck after weeks or months of no study, they're
often surprised by the length intervals have grown to. This is because Anki
considers the actual time the card was unseen, not just the time it was
scheduled for. Thus if the card was scheduled for 5 days but you didn't study
for a month, the next interval will be closer to 60 days than 10 days.

This is a good thing. If you have successfully remembered a card after a one
month wait, chances are you'll remember it again after a longer wait, too. The
same principles which make SRS effective in normal use apply when you're
studying after a delay, too. It also makes little sense to schedule a card for
10 days in the future if you were able to easily answer it after a whole
month's wait - you'd be going backwards.

Resetting the deck is an even worse solution. When returning to a deck after a
long absence, you may have forgotten many of your cards, but chances are you
haven't forgotten them all. Resetting the entire deck means you have to waste
time studying material you already know.

Now you may find cards that you were able to recall, but not comfortably,
since they were not reviewed when they should have been. To counter this, Anki
treats the delay differently depending on your answer. If you find a card
easy, the last interval plus the full delay are added together, and then used
to calculate the next interval. When you answer good, only half the delay is
used. And when you answer hard, only a quarter of the delay is used. So if a
card was due in 5 days, and it's answered 20 days late, the next times you'd
end up with are approximately:

 * Hard: (5 + 20/4) * 1.2 = 12 days
 * Good: (5 + 20/2) * 2.5 = 37.5 days
 * Easy: (5 + 20) * 3.25 = 81.25 days

(the factors will actually vary depending on your performance in the deck)

If you find a card hard, the next interval is quite conservative and is less
than the last wait (25 days). If you find it good, the next interval is only
about 50% higher. And easy increases the interval aggressively as usual.

So it is recommended that you study as normal when you return to Anki after a
period of absence. But if you absolutely must reset the deck, you can select
the cards to reset in the browser, and use Edit>Reschedule.

== Can I do multiple-choice questions? ==

Multiple choice questions are a poor review tool for a number of reasons.
The reason they are commonly used in an academic setting is because they are
easy to mark, and they allow the person studying to demonstrate their ability
to recognize the correct answer even if they can't produce it themselves.

Furthermore, good multiple choice questions have well chosen "distractors" -
answers that are similar to the correct answer. A computer can look for
similary spelt words, but it is not capable of chosing good distractors for
more complicated topics.

If you are studying for a test and you have a sample test with a multiple
choice question like the following:

-----
Q: What animal has a really long neck?

A: 1. A monkey. 2. A giraffe. 3. A donkey. 4. A snail.
-----

Then that question should be rewritten in Anki as follows:

-----
Q: What animal has a really long neck?

A: A giraffe.
-----

Or you can add your own choices:

-----
Q: What animal has a really long neck? (dog/cat/giraffee/penguin)

A: A giraffe.
-----

== Can I link cards together? Add dependencies? How should I handle synonyms? ==

Anki supports links between cards of a note, but not between unrelated cards.
Imagine are you studying Japanese and aiming to be able to both recognize and
reproduce the Japanese. You may enter the word "ookii", which means "big", and
tell Anki to generate two cards - ookii->big and big->ookii.

In the above situation Anki can space reviews of those two sibling cards out
so that they don't appear one after the other (see "delayed cards" in the link
at the top of this document).

Some people want to extend this link between arbitrary cards. They want to be
able to tell Anki "after showing me this card, show me that card", or "don't
show me that card until I know this card well enough". This might sound like a
nice idea in theory, but in practice it is not practical.

For one, unlike the sibling card case above, you would have to define all the
relations yourself. Entering new notes into Anki would become a complicated
process, as you'd have to search through the rest of the deck and assign
relationships between the old and new material.

Secondly, remember that Anki is using an algorithm to determine when the
optimum time to show you material again is. Adding constraints to card display
that cause cards to display earlier or later than they were supposed to will
make the spaced repetition system less effective, leading to more work than
necessary, or forgotten cards.

The most effective way to use Anki is to make each note you see independent
from other notes. Instead of trying to join similar words together, you'll be
better off if you can determine the differences between them. Synonyms are
rarely completely interchangeable - they tend to have nuances attached, and
it's not unusual for a sentence to become strange if one synonym is replaced
with another.

Continuing with the Japanese example earlier, imagine you want to learn the
word "dekai", which also roughly translates to "big", but is a more colloquial
expression. If you still want to review in both directions, you might make the
English prompt of this word "big (more casual)". The further you progress in
your language studies though, the more of a burden it becomes to define the
differences between similar words, which is why cards asking you to produce a
particular word are best left to the early stage of your studies. With a
strong base vocabulary, moving towards recognition-based study makes more
sense, as we all have a much larger passive vocabulary than our active
vocabulary.

As for ensuring that difficult material is introduced after easier material, a
number of existing tools are available. New cards are by default introduced in
the order they are added to the deck, so as long as the learning materials or
sources of information you are using are adequately graded for your level,
material should appear in order of easiness.

== Can I give my notes an arbitrary number of fields? ==

Notes are designed to represent 'closely' related information, and to make it
easy to reorganize where that information appears on a card. In the context of
language learning, notes are useful for representing things like a
phrase-translation pair, a phrase-translation-reading triplet, and so
on. All of these relationships are 1:1 - a given phrase has only one reading,
and one translation. (1)

Because of their ability to tie related pieces of information together, some
people try to use notes to tie less closely related information in their deck
together. For example, if they come across two sentences with the word
"completely":

 * He was completely confused.
 * That was completely uncalled for.

Then they put those two sentences in the same note, under the rationale that
since they share a word, they are related. But what if the user comes across
another example sentence?

 * The book confused her.

That sentence shares the word "confused" with a previous sentence. So should
it be in the note for "confused"? Or the note for "completely"? Or both?

Unlike the phrase-translation pairs mentioned above, if you say sentences
are related if they share a word, then sentences have a many:many
relationship. That is, sentence A may be related to sentence B and C, sentence
B may be related to A and D, and so on. Because the relationships are complex
and overlapping, notes are not a good way to represent them.

There seem to be two main reasons people try to represent such relationships
in notes:

 * "Because it's neater to keep all the information in one place". This may
   seem to be the case, but in reality you really don't save much. If you want
   to see all example sentences that contain the word "completely" and each
   sentence is in a different note, all you have to do is search for
   "completely".

 * "Because I want Anki to separate reviews of cards that share the same
   word". This is related to the previous FAQ question. Defining the links
   between cards is time consuming, and if it were done automatically and
   every card that shared a word were separated from other cards that shared a
   word, it would be both computationally prohibitive, and would likely lead
   to a situation where nothing could be shown because it was all related to
   something else. Yes, it's not ideal for two sentences containing the same
   word to be shown right after each other, but if you add new cards in a
   random order such a situation is unlikely, and the downsides of trying to
   prevent such a situation aren't worth it. And even if such a solution were
   introduced, it wouldn't stop you from encountering the words in the real
   world.

(1) It is possible for different people to translate the same phrase in
  different ways, and different dialects may read the same word differently,
  but that is not relevant to the discussion.

== Can I split a field into two fields? ==

Imagine you have a field that has two lines, and you want to put each line in
a separate field. Provided your deck is formatted consistently, this is
possible.

 . File>export your deck and save it as notes in text format.
 . Add an extra field via the card layout screen. 
 . File>import then text file, and map the field you want to split to the
   File>newly created field. Then use the update button.
 . You should now have two fields that have the same content in them. Visit
   the browser, select all the cards and do a find/replace.
 . In the find/replace, enter (.\*)<br />.* as the search string, \1 as the
   replace string, and enable regular expressions. Apply the search to only
   one field. It will change a two-line field into the first line only.
 . Repeat for the other field, placing the () around the second .* instead of
   the first.

== Is the source code to AnkiWeb available? ==

Most of the functionality in AnkiWeb is in the freely available libanki
library. AnkiWeb itself is not made publicly available, as it will be used
in the future to fund the further development of Anki. There is no package for
sale currently, but if you're interested in using AnkiWeb in a business or
academic setting, please feel free to contact the author and register your
interest.

== Why is the Android version free when the iPhone version isn't? ==

In order to work on Anki full time, I need some way of paying the bills. The
iPhone version was written entirely by me, and thus I have the option of
charging for it. The Android version is the work of a separate group of
volunteers, who have decided to make it freely available like the Anki desktop
program.

== What spaced repetition algorithm does Anki use? ==

Anki was originally based on the SuperMemo SM5 algorithm. However, Anki's
default behaviour of revealing the next interval before answering a card
revealed some fundamental problems with the SM5 algorithm. The key difference
between SM2 and later revisions of the algorithm is this:

 * SM2 uses your performance on a card to determine the next time to schedule
   that card
 * SM3+ use your performance on a card to determine the next time to schedule
   that card, and similar cards

The latter approach promises to choose more accurate intervals by factoring in
not just a single card's performance, but the performance as a group. If you
are very consistent in your studies and all cards are of a very similar
difficulty, this approach can work quite well. However, once inconsistencies
are introduced into the equation (cards of varying difficulty, not studying at
the same time every day), SM3+ is more prone to incorrect guesses at the next
interval - resulting in cards being scheduled too often or too far in the
future.

Furthermore, as SM3+ dynamically adjusts the "optimum factors" table, a
situation can often arise where answering "hard" on a card can result in a
longer interval than answering "easy" would give. The next times are hidden
from you in SuperMemo so the user is never aware of this.

After evaluating the alternatives, the Anki author decided that near-optimum
intervals yielded by an SM2 derivative are better than trying to obtain
optimum intervals at the risk of incorrect guesses. An SM2 approach is
predictable and intuitive to end users, whereas an SM3+ approach hides the
details from the user and requires users to trust the system (even when the
system may make mistakes in the scheduling).

Anki's algorithm is based on SM2, but differs from it in some respects.

 * SM2 defines an initial interval of 1 day then 6 days. With Anki, you have
   full control over the length of the initial learning steps. Anki
   understands that it can be necessary to see a new card a number of times
   before you're able to memorize it, and those initial "failures" don't mean
   you need to be punished by being shown the failed card many times over
   the course of a few days. Performance during the learning stage does not
   reflect performance in the retaining stage.

 * Anki uses 4 choices for answering review cards, not 6. There is only one
   'fail' choice, not 3. The reason for this is that failure comprises a small
   amount of total reviews, and thus adjusting a card's ease can be
   sufficiently done by simply varying the positive answers.

 * Answering cards later than scheduled will be factored into the next
   interval calculation, so you receive a boost to cards that you were late in
   answering but still remembered.

 * Like SM2, Anki's failure button resets the card interval by default. But
   the user can choose to make the card take some steps back rather than being
   reset completely. Also, you can elect to review failed mature cards on a
   different day, instead of the same day.

 * 'Remembered easily' not only increments the ease factor, but adds an extra
   bonus to the current interval calculation. Thus, answering 'remembered
   easily' is a little more aggressive than the standard SM2 algorithm.

 * Successive failures while cards are 'young' (under 21 days) do not result
   in further decreases to the card's ease. A common complaint with the
   standard SM algorithms is that repeated failings of a card cause the card
   to get stuck in "low interval hell". In Anki, the initial acquisition
   process does not influence a card's ease.

For a description of the SM2 algorithm, please see
http://www.supermemo.com/english/ol/sm2.htm


////
== I want to customize fonts and colours ==

You can customize the appearance of cards by clicking "Cards..." while editing.

Other parts of the Anki interface use your system settings for colours and
fonts. You can customize the colours and fonts for all programs, and Anki will
inherit those settings.

If you want to force Anki to use different settings to other applications:

 1. Choose Settings > Plugins > Open Plugin Folder
 2. Go up on level. You'll see a few folders and a 'config.db'.
 3. Create a new text file called 'style.css'. Edit it as follows.

To change the system font:

-----
* { font-family: your_chosen_font_name; }
-----

To change the background to a light blue (including study options screen/etc):

-----
#mainText, #mainTextFrame > *, #welcomeText { background: #ccccff }
-----
The colours are standard http://www.w3schools.com/Html/html_colors.asp[HTML colours]

To make the next interval area bigger:

-----
#easeLabel1, #easeLabel2, #easeLabel3, #easeLabel4 { font-size: 20px; }
-----

== Can I run Anki from a flashdrive? ==

Sure. Do it like this:

1. Install Anki.

2. Copy and paste the Anki directory where the program is installed (usually
"C:\Program Files\Anki") to the root of your USB stick, so you have a
directory like e:\Anki

3. Go to Start->Run, type "notepad," and press enter.  Type:
+
--
-----
start anki\anki.exe -b ankiconfig
-----

Save the file as a .bat file in the root directory of your USB stick, eg e:\anki.bat
--
4. To run Anki from the USB stick, open the USB stick and double click on the .bat file.

5. To move existing decks from your computer to the flash drive, use File>Save As

6. To move existing plugins from your computer, use Settings>Plugins>Open Plugin Dir, and copy all the files to the ankiconfig\plugins directory on your flash drive.

Starting Anki via batch file might cause problems using the LaTeX compilation subroutines. If you experience problems compiling new or changed cards, consider launching the Anki executable "e:\Anki\Anki.exe"  directly.

If you're using Japanese support, you'll need to copy tho reading support too. See the link:JapaneseSupport.html[JapaneseSupport] page.

If your on a mac then you can follow these instructions

1. Install Anki.

2. Copy and paste the Anki.app  where the program is installed (usually "/Appications/Anki.app") to the root of your USB stick, so you have a directory like /Volumes/yourusbstickname/anki.app

3. download the Anki.shlink:attachment:AnkiI.sh.html[attachment:AnkiI.sh] to the root directory of your usbstick

Note: when you download shared decks they will still be downloaded in the default documents folder, in Windows XP "C:\My Documents\anki", so unless you move them, they will not be "ported". 
When you move the downloaded decks to USB remember to open them in anki after the move so Anki can memorize their new position.
////

